Add envoy extension docs (#16376)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/connect/proxies/envoy-extensions/usage/lua.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Lua Envoy Extension
description: >-
  Learn how the `lua` Envoy extension enables Consul to run Lua scripts during Envoy requests and responses from Consul-generated Envoy resources.
---

# Run Lua scripts in Envoy proxy

> The Lua Envoy extension enables the HTTP Lua filter in your Consul Envoy proxies, letting you run Lua scripts when requests and responses pass through Consul-generated Envoy resources.

Author: ```suggestion
The Lua Envoy extension enables the [HTTP Lua filter](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_filters/lua_filter) in your Consul Envoy proxies, letting you run Lua scripts when requests and responses pass through Consul-generated Envoy resources.
```

> The Lua Envoy extension enables the HTTP Lua filter in your Consul Envoy proxies, letting you run Lua scripts when requests and responses pass through Consul-generated Envoy resources.

Author: ```suggestion
The Lua Envoy extension enables the [HTTP Lua filter](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_filters/lua_filter) in your Consul Envoy proxies, letting you run Lua scripts when requests and responses pass through Consul-generated Envoy resources.
```

> Envoy filters support setting and getting dynamic metadata, allowing a filter to share state information with subsequent filters. To set dynamic metadata, configure the HTTP Lua Filter. Users can call `streamInfo:dynamicMetadata()` from Lua scripts to get the request's dynamic metadata. 

Reviewer: This seems like a good place to link to <https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_filters/lua_filter> so that readers know what functions are available to them.

Author: ```suggestion
Envoy filters support setting and getting dynamic metadata, allowing a filter to share state information with subsequent filters. To set dynamic metadata, configure the [HTTP Lua Filter](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_filters/lua_filter). Users can call `streamInfo:dynamicMetadata()` from Lua scripts to get the request's dynamic metadata. 
```

> Envoy filters support setting and getting dynamic metadata, allowing a filter to share state information with subsequent filters. To set dynamic metadata, configure the HTTP Lua Filter. Users can call `streamInfo:dynamicMetadata()` from Lua scripts to get the request's dynamic metadata. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Envoy filters support setting and getting dynamic metadata, allowing a filter to share state information with subsequent filters. To set dynamic metadata, configure the HTTP Lua filter. Users can call `streamInfo:dynamicMetadata()` from Lua scripts to get the request's dynamic metadata. 
```
We used lower case earlier

## Configuration specifications

To use the Lua Envoy extension, configure the following arguments in the `EnvoyExtensions` block:

| Arguments      | Description                                                                                      |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `ProxyType`    | Determines the proxy type the extension applies to. The only supported value is `connect-proxy`. |
| `ListenerType` | Specifies if the extension is applied to the `inbound` or `outbound` listener.                   |
| `Script`       | The Lua script that is configured to run by the HTTP Lua filter.                                 |

## Workflow

There are two steps to configure the Lua Envoy extension:

1. Configure EnvoyExtensions through `service-defaults` or `proxy-defaults`. 
1. Apply the configuration entry.

### Configure `EnvoyExtensions`

To use Envoy extensions, you must configure and apply a `proxy-defaults` or `service-defaults` configuration entry with the Envoy extension.

> - When you configure Envoy extensions on `proxy-defaults`, they apply to every service.
> - When you configure Envoy extensions on `service-defaults`, they apply to a specific service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When you configure Envoy extensions on `proxy-defaults`, they apply to every service.
- When you configure Envoy extensions on `service-defaults`, they apply to a specific service.
```
It's a little weird to me that these are the only behaviors in a bulleted list. I would consider creating and Introduction section and moving all of the information from line 33 to 39 there. You could even create a subtopic called something like "Configuration entry behaviors" to segment that group of information more specifically. You would still need to introduce this section with something like "Add the `EnvoyExtension` to a `proxy-defaults` or `service-defaults` configuration entry."

Author: while i think we can improve on this, for the time being, i'm ok with publishing this as-is

the reason why we opted for the bullet point because it helps with skimming

    }
  }]
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>
</Tab>
<Tab heading="Kubernetes" group="kubernetes">
<CodeBlockConfig filename="lua-envoy-extension-proxy-defaults.yaml">

```yaml
apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
kind: ProxyDefaults
metadata:
  name: global
spec:
  protocol: http
  envoyExtensions:
    name = "builtin/lua"
    arguments:
      proxyType: "connect-proxy"
      listener: "inbound"
      script: |-
function envoy_on_request(request_handle)
  meta = request_handle:streamInfo():dynamicMetadata()
  m = meta:get("consul")
  request_handle:headers():add("x-consul-service", m["service"])
  request_handle:headers():add("x-consul-namespace", m["namespace"])
  request_handle:headers():add("x-consul-datacenter", m["datacenter"])
  request_handle:headers():add("x-consul-trust-domain", m["trust-domain"])
end
```

</CodeBlockConfig>
</Tab>
</Tabs>

For a full list of parameters for `EnvoyExtensions`, refer to the [`service-defaults`](/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-defaults#envoyextensions) and [`proxy-defaults`](/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/proxy-defaults#envoyextensions) configuration entries reference documentation.

> ~> **Note:** Although you can apply `EnvoyExtensions` to `ProxyDefaults`, this may have unintended consequences. We recommend enabling `EnvoyExtensions` with `ServiceDefaults` in most cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
!>**Compatibility warning**: Applying `EnvoyExtensions` to `ProxyDefaults` may produce unintended consequences. We recommend enabling `EnvoyExtensions` with `ServiceDefaults` in most cases.
```
I don't love it, but I think this is probably the most applicable callout. I'd prefer that we just use a regular paragraph.

Author: I'm not sure if this is a compatibility issue...
